All right, so we have finally reached the end of the collections module.
We've learned some amazing functionality in this module that is really at the heart of so many Java
applications and programs.
I just can't emphasize enough how important it is to have these collections classes to allow us to hold
on to literally collections of objects when we are writing our applications.
We've already seen some glimpses of this in past modules where we were modeling the blackjack game,
and I told you we kind of put that project on pause because I really wanted to introduce the collections
framework where some languages might encourage you to simply use an array.
It is most common in Java to use collections and probably most specifically lists, with the array list
being the the most common implementation of the list interface, in fact.
Now, some would even argue that the list is overused.
I would not disagree with that.
It's just so darn easy to use, and it's usually one of the very first types of collections that any
Java developer learns.
And so once they learn that they just go go crazy with it and don't sometimes take the time to fully
analyze whether or not the list is is always the best interface for whatever problem they're trying
to solve.
Just keep in mind if you need to ensure that objects are unique and not duplicated, lists should probably
not be your go to collection, and you probably want to be looking at a set.
And if you were just wanting to keep the objects in that set in order, you now know that you could
either use the tree map or a linked hash set for the actual implementations.
Really, the list is probably best suited when you know you need to be able to access individual elements,
perhaps randomly, rather than just iterating through them in order.
That's one of the best places where the list comes into place.
And then, of course, you know, you can also remap these collections.
You can instantiate a list because most of the time you need the functionality of a list.
But then when you want to make sure that everything is unique, you could wrap a list with a set and
then ensure that uniqueness.
So you've got a lot of flexibility and options.
One last thing I will mention is that there are actually still even a few other collections that I'm
not covering here.
My primary reason for not covering them is because they're much less commonly used than the collections
that I have shown in this module.
In fact, for the most part, the remaining collections are ones that I don't even really use that often.
Now, I'm not saying that you shouldn't learn them.
You certainly should make yourself familiar with them, such as Dex and accused.
That deck, by the way, is De Q U e.
But I would consider these to be a little bit more specialty collections, and I encourage you to go
check those out.
And then there are a number of other classes as well that you can check out.
But the lists, sets and maps are by far the most common collections used in Java, and they will serve
you very well.
And you can model pretty much any scenario using just these three interfaces and their various implementations.
Now, in the next module, we will actually be sticking with the collections, but we'll be learning
a lot of those methods that I skipped over, which have to do with lambdas and some of the even more
advanced capabilities that we can do.
I just didn't want to overwhelm you by trying to ram all of that into one module.
It would have just been too much.
So let's have some fun with that and I will see you in the next module.